# AI-Aided-Power-Electronic-Converters-Efficiency-Optimization-Engineer
Yuanhong Tang, Di Cao, Jian Xiao, Qi Hunag, Yunwei Li, Zhe Chen, Frede Blaabjerg, and Weihao Hu*

Abstract:
As yet, the efficiency optimization of the power electronic converters needs to rely on its circuit model, while an inaccurate model cannot represent the correct operation behavior of the converter. Therefore, the accuracy of the power electronic converter model is of great importance for the efficiency optimization. However, the existing modeling methods cannot provide accurately model for the power electronic converters, since the parasitic parameters of its structure are closely related to the components and their layout, and the device structure size. Moreover, due to the power electronic converters usually contain many switching devices and their operating conditions are very complicated in practical application, thus many variable parameters need to be taken into account in the efficiency optimization process, which aggravates the computational complexity of optimization procedure for the efficiency. Based on the analysis mentioned above, the existing methods cannot provide the optimal efficiency optimization modulation strategy for the power electronic converters. Although, the artificial intelligence (AI) is powerful for solving the optimization and decision-making problems of difficult modeling and high-dimensional complex systems, its applications in the power electronic converters efficiency optimization are still being developed.  Inspired by the successful application of the robotic chemist, and the classic games, here, we present an AI aided efficiency optimization engineer for the first time, which can train online to search for improved the operation efficiency for the dual active bridge (DAB) converter without prior knowledge about their circuit model. The engineer operated autonomously around the clock in a practical circuit platform about 71 hours, performing 120, 000 consecutive experiments within a six-variable experimental space, driven by the deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) algorithm. This autonomous exploring approach found an optimized modulation strategy, which can greatly improve the efficiency under entire continuous operation range compares to existing methods, especially under light load conditions. This online optimization approach can be deployed in the conventional power electronic converters for a range of operation performance optimization problems beyond the DAB converter. Our study created a novel idea and expanded the frontier theory for the power electronics automatic optimization.
